---
title: 190430 ( Problem solving ) How I solved { vue } deployment ,, index.html ,, src path ,, sub-domain path missing # 190430m120918
date: 2019-04-30 12:09:18
---

{% raw %}
<ul>
  <li><strong>Short:</strong> -</li>
</ul>

<!-- more -->
<hr>

<ol>
<li><strong>Timeline from the problem start, and to the problem finally get solved:</strong>
<ol>
<li><strong>2019-04-29 I tried to deploy project { Doggo } to github.</strong></li>
<li><strong>I follow the Vue deployment guide:</strong> <a href="https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/deployment.html">Link</a>. I config my <code>vue.config.js</code>, add an option - <code>publicPath</code> property. I create a shell script <code>deploy.sh</code>.</li>
<li><strong>The shell script { deploy.sh } abort when pushing to git:</strong> The build part is running fine (<code>npm run build</code>), so I guess the problem is not happens at vue build, but push to github.</li>
<li><strong>Found key info about git can push with { ssh } or { https }:</strong> I notice a article imply about git can push with either { https } (suggested?) and { ssh } (not suggested?), so I go back to my <code>deploy.sh</code> and found the address I used was <code>git push -f git@github.com:treegb/doggo.git master:gh-pages</code>, so I think Vue [ document ]-[ guide ] is using ssh method. And maybe I can't push is because I didn't haven't establish some authentication between me (client) and git server before I can use { ssh }. So I think I have to change this line to https address, but I don't know how.</li>
<li><strong>I tried to think about .git directory:</strong> This file always appears in every git local project directory, but since the <code>dist</code> directory generate by <code>vue-cli-service build</code> when <code>build</code>, will not have the <code>.git</code> directory in default, so how can I create that .git directory? If I can make that directory inside my dist directly, then I simply just <code>cd</code> to <code>dist</code>, then use <code>git push origin master:gh-pages</code> and it will works.</li>
<li><strong>I notice the { git init } in { deploy.sh } file:</strong> So I try to test what this command works. I found this command will generate <code>.git</code> directory, this is just I want.</li>
<li><strong>I still don't know how to push to a specific remote git address:</strong> I tried to git push origin master:gh-pages anyway, it failed, with error message - <code>Fatal: 'origin' does not appear to be a git repository</code>. I google with this message and found <a href="https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15637507/fatal-origin-does-not-appear-to-be-a-git-repository">this article</a>, and I got a key - use <code>git remote add origin url/to/your/fork</code> to "define" what is "origin" in your <code>.git/config</code> first. Now with this command I define what is the <code>"origin"</code> mean in this git local repo.</li>
<li><strong>Push with { git push origin master:gh-pages } now works.</strong></li>
<li><strong>I go to gh-pages static website of this project, but it is blank:</strong> A blank page can mean <strong>so much things</strong> (caused by any kind of possibility)! I don't know if it is my App logic is wrong? The config of my App  is wrong? The config of my { build } is wrong? The process of my { vue } { build } is wrong? { Vue } [ guide ]-[ document ] is outdated? My { vue-cli ] global command is outdated? I push to wrong places? The push failed with some reason? My gh-pages setting is wrong and the static site wont not served by default? Git don't support specific kind of content? Other reason I haven't thought about? <strong>There is just too much possibility that makes the trouble shooting very very hard!</strong></li>
<li><strong>I have no clue, but I try to do random probe:</strong> This is <strong>another key</strong>, I go into <strong>diffuse mode</strong> instead of <strong>focus mode</strong>, I <strong>play around</strong> with any possibility.</li>
<li><strong>I open the inspector (web console, F12 in Firefox):</strong> I found in the console log, it shows 2 abnormal message - <code>... resources "https://treegb.github.io/js/chunk-vendors.b67a9d55.js" not found ...</code> . But I don't know what it means.</li>
<li><strong>I found a thread, and it hint me to check about the 404 status code:</strong> I made a glimpse on <a href="https://github.com/vuejs/vue-cli/issues/1955">this thread</a>, but didn't even see the content at all, instead, I was hint by the keyword <strong>404</strong>, and I was thinking about I can check the status code of the request. I open [ web console ]-[ inspect elements ]-[ F12 ] again, go to network tab, and refresh the page. It did show some 404 request of resources. Now I start to guess the problem might be the <strong>url</strong> in my app is incorrect.</li>
<li><strong>I found index.html have wrong url attribute:</strong> After long struggling, I think I can go check the index.html to see if the src attribute is using abnormal domain name. And I found, every <code>src</code> attribute inside don't include <span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>sub-domain name</strong></span> <code>doggo</code>. I think this is further closing the source of problem. But I still don't know why.</li>
<li><strong>Now I exclude deployment as the problem:</strong> Github and <code>deployment</code> was eliminated outside of the problem, the problem <strong>narrow down to</strong> the <code>build</code> process itself, it have the wrong url (missing sub-domain name) at the first place.</li>
<li><strong>I was stuck now:</strong> I have checked <code>vue.config.js</code>, I set the <code>publicPath</code> correctly. Even I tried a lot of things, it still don't work no matter how. <strong>This is the most time I spent for this problem shooting process,</strong> I just don't know where the problem is. </li>
<li><strong>The problem is even narrowing down:</strong> By following <a href="https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/creating-a-project.html">this guide</a>, I tried to create a new vue testing project, and try to <code>build</code> it immediately. Now the <strong>same symptom</strong> shows up, the <code>index.html</code> in <code>dist</code> directory have the wrong url (missing sub-domain name). I still don't know the problem, but at least I reduce the problem area. I eliminate the possibility of my apps causing the problem.</li>
<li><strong>Another key comes out when I was in "diffuse mode":</strong> Nothing I can do, I tried to read <a href="https://cli.vuejs.org/config/#vue-config-js">guide of vue.config.js</a>, again, casually. At one point, I notice there is another method I can config my Vue behavior, it is through adding extra property - <code>vue</code>, in <code>package.json</code>.</li>
<li><strong>Another key comes out when I was in "diffuse mode":</strong> I found there is one [ option ]-[ property ] I can exploit, that is <code>outputDir</code>. At default, when you run <code>npm run build</code>, vue-cli will <code>build</code> it into <code>dist</code> directory, but we can change this behaviour by giving different <code>outputDir</code> value.</li>
<li><strong>I tried to test if ALL configuration at vue work at all:</strong> Now I want to make sure one thing first, does any configuration of vue works at all? tried to exploit the <code>outputDir</code> option. I add <code>outputDir: 'disttt'</code> first, and build again. I found with this [ options ]-[ property ], when it is put inside <code>vue.config.js</code> it don't work, but if it is put inside <code>package.json</code>, it works!</li>
<li><strong>Now the problem reduce down to, { vue.config.js } is not working:</strong> It might as well caused by many possible reason, but luckily, after looking inside this file again, I found at the <code>module.expots = {}</code> part, I was missing a <code>r</code> character, it should be <code>module.exports = {}</code> instead! Oh my god! This "bug" is so stupid.</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><strong>What I'd learned in this trouble shooting:</strong>
<ol>
<li><strong>"Diffuse mode" is so important:</strong> Using <code>Diffuse mode</code> in the beginning is so much important than <code>focus mode</code>. <code>Diffuse mode</code> first, then <code>focus mode</code> later.</li>
<li><strong>Only obey the Rationality:</strong> Not what you want to trust, but what Rationality tells you.</li>
<li><strong>Only obey the Truth:</strong> Not what you want to trust, but what Rationality tells you.</li>
<li><strong>"Correlation does not imply causation":</strong> Keep making assumption about the where is the real source of the current problem.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>

<hr>

<div class="facetList">
Cmm: u190430m120918 x88lost x88fs c88sofw programming c88programming webdev c88webdev problem c88problem problem88problemSolving problem88solved trouble shooting troubleShooting sofw88framework vue vueww vueJs framework88vueJs deploy deployment
Current: ti88crr88y19 ti88crr88y19dw2 ti88crr88y19m04 ti88crr88y19m04d30 ti88crr88y19m04dw2 ti88crr88y19q2 ti88crr88y19q2dw2 ti88crr88y19w18 ti88crr88y19w18dw2
Time (d): ti88y19 ti88y19dw2 ti88y19m04 ti88y19m04d30 ti88y19m04dw2 ti88y19q2 ti88y19q2dw2 ti88y19w18 ti88y19w18dw2
</div>
{% endraw %}
