---
title: 190222 [Movie]-[Way of the Peaceful Warrior] # 190222m105329
date: 2019-02-22 10:53:29
---

{% raw %}
<ul>
  <li><strong>Short:</strong> Super inspiring and "熱血沸騰" movie. The book and movie is part-autobiographical book based upon the early life of the author <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Dan Millman</span>. I learn all the secrets philosophy of haveing meaningful life, in this just one film.</li>
</ul>

<!-- more -->
<hr>

<ol>
  <li><strong>Also see:</strong>
    <ol>
    <li><strong>190222 (Philosophy) Stoicism # 190222m110455:</strong> <a href="/treegbBlog/19/02/22/190222m110455/">Link</a>.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li><strong>Book and movie:</strong> The <a href="https://zh.wikipedia.org/zh-tw/%E6%B7%B1%E5%A4%9C%E5%8A%A0%E6%B2%B9%E7%AB%99%E9%81%87%E8%A6%8B%E8%98%87%E6%A0%BC%E6%8B%89%E5%BA%95">book</a> is called <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Way of the Peaceful Warrior</span>, while the <a href="https://zh.wikipedia.org/zh-tw/%E6%B7%B1%E5%A4%9C%E5%8A%A0%E6%B2%B9%E7%AB%99%E9%81%87%E8%A6%8B%E8%98%87%E6%A0%BC%E6%8B%89%E5%BA%95_(%E9%9B%BB%E5%BD%B1)">movie</a> is called <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Peaceful Warrior</span> (中文 - 深夜加油站遇見蘇格拉底). <strong>I should read the book someday</strong>.</li>
  <li><strong>Live in "now", the "current moment":</strong> Never live in past, in the future. The only <strong>experience and purpose</strong> of life come from "now", not other two. At every moment you are doing <strong>meditation</strong>.</li>
  <li><strong>Everything have it's purpose:</strong> Enjoy and experience the "current moment", this is the purpose of life, you are just experiencing the purpose of life.</li>
  <li><strong>Life is about the journey, not the result:</strong> Life, or every small things or story is about the <strong>journey and experience</strong>, not the result, don't care too much about the result, it is not so important.</li>
  <li><strong>All choices come with it's own pleasure and price:</strong> Be responsible for that and enjoy your choice.</li>
  <li><strong>Accept that you can't "control":</strong> Everything will not stay, they change, change a lot through time. Don't hold the beauty side of something because it will fail, the beauty can't stay forever, they will go away eventually at some time. Experience and enjoy the current moment.</li>
  <li><strong>Focus on being persistence and resilience:</strong> Find your goal, and stick on it. The purpose of life also come from this.</li>
  <li><strong>And finally you get peace, the "current moment":</strong> Honestly, this is out of what I expect. When I was watching this movie, I feel like I was <strong>highly focus</strong>, into the "<strong>flow</strong>" state, I also have very strong "<strong>peace</strong>" feeling, it's real. I don't expect this movie bring me this when I was watching.</li>
</ol>

<hr>

<div class="facetList">
Cmm: u190222m105329 x88lost x88fs c88follow follow88month c88share movie c88movie video presentation88video book c88book way wayww method of ofww the theww peaceful peace warrior wayOf ofThe thePeaceful peacefulWarrior peaceWarrior inspiration c88inspiration thought c88thought philosophy c88philosophy psychology c88psychology the theww power of ofww now nowww thePower powerOf ofNow current currently this moment time future past meditation sport gymnastics gymnastic gym gymnast athletes athlete athletic coach gas station gasStation grocery store night dark fail failed failure injured injury break leg legww hospital the theww purpose meaning of ofww life thePurpose purposeOf ofLife theMeaning meaningOf meaningful happiness happy sensation pain painful suffer suffering unpleasant pleasant pleasure
Current: ti88crr88y19 ti88crr88y19dw5 ti88crr88y19m02 ti88crr88y19m02d22 ti88crr88y19m02dw5 ti88crr88y19q1 ti88crr88y19q1dw5 ti88crr88y19w08 ti88crr88y19w08dw5
Time (d): ti88y19 ti88y19dw5 ti88y19m02 ti88y19m02d22 ti88y19m02dw5 ti88y19q1 ti88y19q1dw5 ti88y19w08 ti88y19w08dw5
Who: socrates who88socrates greece greek greeks philosopher dan danww millman
</div>
{% endraw %}
