---
title: 190222 (Philosophy) Stoicism # 190222m110455
date: 2019-02-22 11:04:55
---

{% raw %}

<!-- more -->
<hr>

<ol>
  <li><strong>Also see:</strong>
    <ol>
      <li><strong>190222 [Movie]-[Way of the Peaceful Warrior] # 190222m105329:</strong> <a href="/treegbBlog/19/02/22/190222m105329/">Link</a>.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li><strong>[Stoicism as a philosophy for an ordinary life]-[Massimo Pigliucci]-[TEDxAthens]:</strong>
    <ol>
      <li><strong>Link:</strong><a href="https://youtu.be/Yhn1Fe8cT0Q"> Link</a>.</li>
      <li><strong>Core 2 pillars of Stoicism:</strong> <strong>virtue</strong> (Ethics, courage, wisdom ...) and <strong>knowing what you can and you can't control</strong>.</li>
      <li><strong>Famous [people-[model]:</strong> Marcus Aurelius.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li><strong>(Unread):</strong> <a href="https://youtu.be/5897dMWJiSM">Link</a>. This talk is more popular.</li>
  <li><strong>(Book) "The Obstacle Is The Way" by Ryan Holiday:</strong> <a href="http://theobstacleistheway.com/">Link</a>.</li>
  <li><strong>Stoic optimism:</strong>
    <ol>
      <li><strong>Link:</strong> <a href="https://youtu.be/e2Zq2VWvmW4">Link</a>.</li>
      <li>In this TedTalk, Ryan Holiday give many [stories]**[examples] about famous people been through their trouble and failure, and what the mindset they had when facing these trouble and failure. Compare to those hero, the obstacles we normal people facing are in fact really nothing and not comparable to what they had faced.</li>
      <li><strong>Notice</strong>, The <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Stoic Optimism</span> concept (by Ryan Holiday?) is not as same as <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Optimism</span> solely, <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Optimism</span> is the concept of having <strong>hope</strong> to <strong>future</strong>, and <strong>expect</strong> something good happens in future ; while <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Stoic Optimism</span> is the concept of you <strong>don't care</strong> if the <strong>result is good or bad</strong> in the future, even you know it is bad and it will never be changed, you still be optimistic toward the current [situation]-[difficulty]. Think example of James Stockdale (he was a prisoner of war, in Vietnamese POW camp, for over seven years).</li>
      <li>See <a href="/treegbBlog/19/02/22/190222m105329/">190222 [Movie]-[Way of the Peaceful Warrior] # 190222m105329</a> (Live in "now", the "current moment", <strong>everything have it's purpose</strong>). So don't care if the result is bad or good.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li><strong>James Stockdale:</strong>
    <ol>
      <li><strong>About:</strong> James Bond Stockdale (December 23, 1923 – July 5, 2005) was a United States Navy vice admiral and aviator awarded the Medal of Honor in the Vietnam War, during which he was a prisoner of war (in Vietnamese POW camp) for over seven years.  (See the documentary video. it is more informative, he resist to "surrender" even he is under torture, in Vietnam communism land, and lead those captive (from US too) to against those communist). He have so powerful will, that you can see in the documentary video, the wikipedia page didn't mention this a lot.</li>
      <li><strong>Wikipedia:</strong> <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Stockdale#Vice-Presidential_candidacy">Link</a>.</li>
      <li><strong>Short documentary:</strong> <a href="https://youtu.be/Pc_6GDWl0s4">Link</a>.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li><strong>[Why stoicism matters]-[the school of life]:</strong> <a href="https://youtu.be/vOj5KLcymgA">Link</a>.</li>
</ol>

<hr>

<div class="facetList">
Cmm: u190222m110455 x88lost x88fs c88follow follow88week c88share thought c88thought inspiration c88inspiration philosophy c88philosophy stoicism stoic ethics c88ethics ethic ethical morality moral bad badww worst thing will willww happened happens 2 2ww pillar pillars 2Pillar number882 the theww purpose meaning of ofww life thePurpose purposeOf ofLife theMeaning meaningOf meaningful happiness happy sensation pain painful suffer suffering unpleasant pleasant pleasure
Current: ti88crr88y19 ti88crr88y19dw5 ti88crr88y19m02 ti88crr88y19m02d22 ti88crr88y19m02dw5 ti88crr88y19q1 ti88crr88y19q1dw5 ti88crr88y19w08 ti88crr88y19w08dw5
Place: roman place88roman greece place88greece
Time (d): ti88y19 ti88y19dw5 ti88y19m02 ti88y19m02d22 ti88y19m02dw5 ti88y19q1 ti88y19q1dw5 ti88y19w08 ti88y19w08dw5
Who: seneca who88seneca
</div>
{% endraw %}
